So in this lecture we learn about the Java underscore home environment variable and how we can set it.
So what is the Java underscore home variable?
Java underscore home is an operating system environment variable, which is usually set after the installation
of either the Java development kits or the Java runtime environment.
The Java underscore home environment variable points to the filesystem location where the JDK or Java
was installed.
The variable should be configured on all operating systems that have a Java installation.
So why do we set a Java underscore home variable?
The environment variable is used by programs that require Java at runtime.
The program will query the operating system for the Java underscore home variable to find out where
the runtime is installed.
After the location of the JDK or Java installation is found, those programs can initiate Java based
processes.
So let's make a start.
Set a neat Java home variable on Windows.
So before we begin in the search bar, I'm going to type CMD and then open up command prompt.
So I'm going to prove that the JDK is yet to be installed.
So I'm going to type Java Space Hyphen version and click Enter.
And you see Java is not recognized.
And this is because the environment variable has not been set yet.
So I'm going to close that.
And in the search part again, I'm going to type system.
Space envy and you should be presented with a system environment variable button, which, if we click,
will open up the foreign panel.
So you can see at the bottom we have environment variables and if I click on that button, it should
present the following.
So this is where we can set these system variables.
So there's two sections to this.
At the top is the user variables for admin, and this is where I'm going to set Java underscore home
and in the system variables at the bottom.
I just need to edit the existing path variable.
So under the admin variable section, I'm going to select the new button.
And under variable name, I'm going to type Java in capital letters underscore home.
And then I need to provide a variable value which is going to point to the JDK folder.
If I click browse directory.
And then if I scroll down on this panel, we're trying to locate the resources folder where the JDK
resides.
So if I expand on this resources folder, you'll see at the top level is the JDK folder and this is
what I need to highlight.
So if I click okay, that path would then be populated.
And you can see is for reference in the JDK folder.
If I click okay, that java underscore home variable is now set.
In the bottom section, I'm going to edit the existing path system variable.
So if a highlighted and then if I click the edit button, you'll see some existing paths.
So I need to add to this.
So what I'm going to do is click the new button.
And then, you see, I need to provide a path.
So I'm then going to select the browser Batson.
And the difference to this is that I need to go to the resources folder again a scrolling down and expand
it.
Instead of selecting the JDK folder, I need to instead find the bin folder, which is a sub folder
so you can see bin is highlighted.
But click okay.
That path would now be populated.
So this is all we need to do.
And now we can click okay and click okay again.
And then if we click okay on this one panel, those system variables have now been set.
So now if I search for command, prompt again and type in that same command.
Java space hyphen version and now click enter.
You'll see the open JDK has been found.
So this confirms it's working and this lecture is showing you how to set the Java home variable.
Let's move on to the next lecture.